kubeadm v1.15 blog post (#15026)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2019-06-24-kubeadm-ha-v115.md

> # Automated High Availability in kubeadm v1.15: Batteries Included But Swappable

Reviewer: This blog post needs usual front matter. Have a look at other blog posts for an example.

[kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/) is a tool that enables Kubernetes administrators
to quickly and easily bootstrap minimum viable clusters that are fully compliant with 
[Certified Kubernetes](https://github.com/cncf/k8s-conformance/blob/master/terms-conditions/Certified_Kubernetes_Terms.md) guidelines.
It’s been under active development by [SIG Cluster Lifecycle](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cluster-lifecycle)

> since 2016 and we graduated it from beta to

Reviewer 2: maybe we can rephrase it to `and graduated from beta to`

> [stable and generally available (GA) in end of 2018](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/12/04 production-ready-kubernetes-cluster-creation-with-kubeadm/).

Reviewer 2: maybe `generally available (GA) at the end of 2018`

After this important milestone, the kubeadm team is now focused on the stability of the core feature set and working on
maturing existing features.

With this post, we are introducing the improvements made in the v1.15 release of kubeadm.

## The scope of kubeadm

kubeadm is focused on performing the actions necessary to get a minimum viable, secure cluster up and running in a
user-friendly way. kubeadm's scope is limited to the local machine’s filesystem and the Kubernetes API, and it is
intended to be a _composable building block for higher-level tools_. 

The core of the kubeadm interface is quite simple: new control plane nodes are created by running 
<strong><code>kubeadm init</code></strong>, worker nodes are joined to the control plane by running
<strong><code>kubeadm join</code></strong>. Also included are common utilities for managing already bootstrapped

> clusters, such as control plane upgrades and token and certificate renewal.

Reviewer 2: maybe `control plane upgrades, token and certificate renewal` ?

To keep kubeadm lean, focused, and vendor/infrastructure agnostic, the following tasks are out of scope:

*   Infrastructure provisioning
*   Third-party networking

> *   Non-critical add-ons for e.g. monitoring, logging, and visualization

Reviewer 2: maybe remove `for`

apiserver-etcd-client      May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
apiserver-kubelet-client   May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
controller-manager.conf    May 15, 2020 13:03 UTC   364d            false
etcd-healthcheck-client    May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
etcd-peer                  May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
etcd-server                May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
front-proxy-client         May 15, 2020 13:00 UTC   364d            false
scheduler.conf             May 15, 2020 13:03 UTC   364d            false
```

You should expect also more work around certificate management in kubeadm in the next releases, with the introduction of ECDSA keys and with improved support for CA key rotation. Additionally, the commands staged under `kubeadm alpha` are expected to move top-level soon.

### Improved Configuration File Format

You can argue that there are hardly two Kubernetes clusters that are configured equally, and hence there is a need to customize how the cluster is set up depending on the environment. One way of configuring a component is via flags. However, this has some scalability limitations:

> * **Hard to maintain.** When $component’s flag set grows over 30+ flags, configuring it becomes really painful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Hard to maintain.** When a component’s flag set grows over 30+ flags, configuring it becomes really painful.
```

* **Programmable**. Configuration expressed in JSON/YAML allows for consistent, and programmable manipulation
* **Expressible**. Advanced patterns of configuration can be used and applied.
* **Declarative**. OpenAPI information can easily be exposed / used for doc generation

In kubeadm v1.15, we have improved the structure and are releasing the new **v1beta2** format. Important to note that the existing **v1beta1** format released in v1.13 will still continue to work for several releases. This means you can upgrade kubeadm to v1.15, and still use your existing v1beta1 configuration files. When you’re ready to take advantage of the improvements made in v1beta2, you can perform an automatic schema migration using the `kubeadm config migrate` command. Important to note in this release is that support for the _v1alpha3_ version has been dropped.

During the course of the year, we’re looking forward to graduate the schema to General Availability `v1`.` If you’re interested in this effort, you can also join [WG Component Standard](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-component-standard).

## What’s next?

### 2019 plans

> We are focusing our efforts this year around graduating the configuration file format to GA (`kubeadm.k8s.io/v1`)`, graduating this super-easy High Availability flow to stable, and providing better tools around rotating certificates needed for running the cluster automatically.

Reviewer 2: nit: `this year` can be taken out since the header is 2019 plans

We make no guarantees that these deliverables will ship this year though, as this is a community effort. If you want to see these things happen, please join our SIG and start contributing! The ComponentConfig issues in particular need more attention.

### kubeadm now has a logo!

[Dan Kohn](https://github.com/dankohn) offered CNCF’s help with creating a logo for kubeadm in this cycle. [Alex Contini](https://github.com/alexcontini) created 19 (!) different logo options for the community to vote on. The public poll was active for around a week, and we got 386 answers. The winning option got 17.4% of the votes, so now it’s official!

![kubeadm's logo](/static/images/blog/2019-06-24-kubeadm-ha-v115/logo.png)

## Contributing

If this all sounds exciting, **join us**!

[SIG Cluster Lifecycle](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cluster-lifecycle) has many different
subprojects, where kubeadm is one of them. In the following picture you can see that there are many pieces in the
puzzle, and we have a lot still to do.

![SIG Cluster Lifecycle Projects](/static/images/blog/2019-06-24-kubeadm-ha-v115/projects.png)

Some handy links if you want to start contribute:

> *   We have a recorded [New Contributor Onboarding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bof9aveB3rA) session on YouTube.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   You can watch the SIG Cluster Lifecycle [New Contributor Onboarding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bof9aveB3rA) session on YouTube.
```

*   Look out for “good first issue”, “help wanted” and “sig/cluster-lifecycle” labeled issues in our repositories 
    (e.g. [kubernetes/kubeadm](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm))

> *   Join **#sig-cluster-lifecycle**, **#kubeadm**, **#cluster-api**, **#minikube**, **#kind**, etc. in Slack

Reviewer: Which Slack organisation? (I assume it's the main Kubernetes Slack).
Is it worth linking there?

*   Join our public, bi-weekly SIG Cluster Lifecycle Zoom meeting at Tuesdays 9am PT
    *   Check out the [Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Gmc7LyCIL_148a9Tft7pdhdee0NBHdOfHS1SAF0duI4/edit) to join
*   Join our public, weekly kubeadm Office Hours Zoom meeting at Wednesdays 9am PT
    *   Check out the [Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/130_kiXjG7graFNSnIAgtMS1G8zPDwpkshgfRYS0nggo/edit) to join
*   Check out the [SIG Cluster Lifecycle Intro](https://youtu.be/bA2M41J4wvg) or the
    [kubeadm Deep Dive](https://youtu.be/spXSSIbZTqM) sessions from KubeCon Barcelona

### Thank You

This release wouldn’t have been possible without the help of the great people that have been contributing to SIG Cluster Lifecycle and kubeadm. We would like to thank all the kubeadm contributors and companies making it possible for their developers to work on Kubernetes!

> ## Written by:

Reviewer: Usually, Kubernetes blog posts list the author(s) just below the front matter.
